a momentary with your regular
programming with the fabric to
development of a step or fitness Aloha
Doug Jones here coming to you from the
end of the Alec I swamp trailer the a
leaky swamp trail depending how you want
to pronounce it overlooking the
beautiful Hanalei Bay on the North Shore
of Kauai II now this is the land of
Hanalei this is Puff the Magic Dragon
during that song I don't think they were
singing about puffing cigarettes but
it's a great place for me to teach you
about cigarette puffing I've had
hundreds of clients over the years who
want to start an exercise program who
aren't ready to completely stop smoking
and that's okay you can gradually reduce
your consumption of cigarette smoking
but there's two important principles you
want to remember when you begin an
exercise program if you do smoke one
don't smoke before you exercise and two
don't smoke out the exercise and it has
to do with the affinity of carbon
monoxide in the cigarettes with the
hemoglobin in your blood getting right
to the point the hemoglobin molecule in
red blood cells is designed to bind to
oxygen and transport it from your lungs
to your muscles especially during
exercise however carbon monoxide which
is found in cigarette smoke has an
affinity to this hemoglobin which is 240
times stronger than that of oxygen in
other words a few puffs of smoke can
quickly conquer a body full of fresh air
so to speak and before during and after
exercise your body needs all of the
oxygen it can get so if you haven't
quite quit smoking yet please do
yourself and your body a big favor and
don't smoke for at least an hour before
in an hour after your exercise session
and hopefully gradually build up from
there and then when you just can't stand
it any longer and you really really get
the urge so that's it that's a wrap I'm
heading for miles back out before the
Sun sets have to go twice as fast we'll
see you next time Aloha
you